# to-do

For this part of my portfolio, I decided to include two different assignments: One coded in bash, the other in Python3 and SQL, that both do the same thing. The user can choose to add a item to the to-do list, complete an item from the to-do list, or to remove/delete an item from the to-do list. The functionality of the bash to-do list includes more detailed descriptions of the to-do list items, while the Python3/SQL to-do list has the functionality of calculating average time to complete to-do list items by accessing the database.

I chose to include both of these files because they use technologies I am interested in; bash was one of my favorite programming languages to learn about, and SQL and databases are very relevant in creating modern, scalable applications. I found that these to-do list managers demonstrate proficency in developing software in more than one programming language/paradigm (CS 2), and the way that the Python3/SQL version of this to-do list manager demonstrated interface with the network also represents our first learning objective for Computer Science; the relationship between the network and the computer application. 

I was inspired in some ways by these assignments, to try to do my C homework in python, and to try to do my python homeworks in C in between the summer semester, and it was a lot of fun for me. I think the idea of being able to solve the same problem with drastically different methods is important and demonstrates a fundamental level of understanding. The bash to-do list was far more interesting to implement, and I thought it was rather unique in the way that a text file is updated in real time, to serve as our database. Of course, the Python3/SQL file actually does update a database in real time over a network, but I thought that using file IO was more interesting and unique, as is programming in bash - a scripting language often only reserved for terminal commands. The bash file will create two new folders upon being run - todo and completed, and to do items are represented by text files containing the data relevant to that to-do item. When a item is market completed, it is moved from the todo folder to the completed folder and can still be inspected in there. Similarly, the completed items can be viewed in the Python3/SQL file as well. I think that interfacing with SQL databases is a worthy skill, which is why I felt I couldn't have a portfolio without some work demonstrating SQL proficency. 
